#summary about the AIR SDK.

== Introduction ==

<pre>
Adobe® AIR® SDK & Compiler provides developers with a consistent
and flexible development environment for the delivery of out-of-browser
applications and games across devices and platforms (Windows, Mac, iOS, Android)
</pre>


== Details ==

AIR SDK and Compiler includes:
  * Framework for Adobe AIR APIs
  * !ActionScript Compiler 1.0 or 2.0
  * Template for the Adobe AIR application install badge
  * Command-line Adobe AIR Debug Launcher (ADL)
  * Command-line Adobe AIR Developer Tool (ADT)

AIR allows AS3 developers to [http://blogs.adobe.com/simplicity/2011/07/build-better-apps.html Use a Cross-Platform Runtime to Build Better Apps]
<pre>
The inherent advantage of using a cross-platform runtime, such as AIR, to develop applications
is typically understood to be the boost in productivity that’s achieved by reducing the amount
of per-platform work that’s required. While it’s true this is a potential advantage, it’s generally
discussed with an implicit assumption that the developer is interested in reducing the development cost.

Suppose, for moment, that this is not the case. If you spend just as much on development as you did before
and use a cross-platform runtime, then what happens? You build better apps.

The key is to take all the time you saving writing code once and apply the savings elsewhere in your application.
That could be to additional features. Or it could be a better experience: improved responsiveness, more intuitive UI,
lower memory use. No matter how you spend this savings, you build a better app.
</pre>


=== Getting the AIR Runtime ===

latest URL
{{{
https://get.adobe.com/air/
https://get.adobe.com/air/otherversions/
}}}

versioned download
{{{
OSX
http://airdownload.adobe.com/air/mac/download/18.0/AdobeAIR.dmg

WIN
http://airdownload.adobe.com/air/win/download/18.0/AdobeAIRInstaller.exe
}}}


=== Getting the AIR SDK ===

The "no brainer" version is to go on the [http://www.adobe.com/devnet/air/air-sdk-download.html Download Adobe AIR SDK] page<br>
and then click the yellow button (mac or win).

but wait...

there are *TWO* AIR SDK

one that come with [https://code.google.com/p/redtamarin/wiki/ASC2 ASC 2.0] but *CAN NOT BE MERGED* with the Flex SDK (AIRSDK_Compiler)

one that use the legacy [https://code.google.com/p/redtamarin/wiki/ASC ASC 1.0] and *CAN BE MERGED* with the [FLEXSDK Flex SDK] (AdobeAIRSDK)


here the URL logic to download them

  * get the *latest* AIR SDK with ASC 2.0<br>Mac OS X : [http://airdownload.adobe.com/air/mac/download/latest/AIRSDK_Compiler.tbz2 airdownload.adobe.com/air/mac/download/*latest*/AIRSDK_Compiler.tbz2]<br>Windows : [http://airdownload.adobe.com/air/win/download/latest/AIRSDK_Compiler.zip airdownload.adobe.com/air/win/download/*latest*/AIRSDK_Compiler.zip]
  * get AIR *3.7* SDK with ASC 2.0<br>Mac OS X : [http://airdownload.adobe.com/air/mac/download/3.7/AIRSDK_Compiler.tbz2 airdownload.adobe.com/air/mac/download/*3.7*/AIRSDK_Compiler.tbz2]<br>Windows : [http://airdownload.adobe.com/air/win/download/3.7/AIRSDK_Compiler.zip airdownload.adobe.com/air/win/download/*3.7*/AIRSDK_Compiler.zip]
  * get AIR *3.6* SDK with ASC 2.0<br>Mac OS X : [http://airdownload.adobe.com/air/mac/download/3.6/AIRSDK_Compiler.tbz2 airdownload.adobe.com/air/mac/download/*3.6*/AIRSDK_Compiler.tbz2]<br>Windows : [http://airdownload.adobe.com/air/win/download/3.6/AIRSDK_Compiler.zip airdownload.adobe.com/air/win/download/*3.6*/AIRSDK_Compiler.zip]
  * etc.

and the same for the classic SDK (which is older and so can be downloaded for older version than 3.6)

  * get the *latest* AIR SDK to merge with Flex SDK<br>Mac OS X : [http://airdownload.adobe.com/air/mac/download/latest/AdobeAIRSDK.tbz2 airdownload.adobe.com/air/mac/download/*latest*/AdobeAIRSDK.tbz2]<br>Windows : [http://airdownload.adobe.com/air/win/download/latest/AdobeAIRSDK.zip airdownload.adobe.com/air/win/download/*latest*/AdobeAIRSDK.zip]
  * get AIR *3.7* SDK to merge with Flex SDK<br>Mac OS X : [http://airdownload.adobe.com/air/mac/download/3.7/AdobeAIRSDK.tbz2 airdownload.adobe.com/air/mac/download/*3.7*/AdobeAIRSDK.tbz2]<br>Windows : [http://airdownload.adobe.com/air/win/download/3.7/AdobeAIRSDK.zip airdownload.adobe.com/air/win/download/*3.7*/AdobeAIRSDK.zip]
  * get AIR *3.6* SDK to merge with Flex SDK<br>Mac OS X : [http://airdownload.adobe.com/air/mac/download/3.6/AdobeAIRSDK.tbz2 airdownload.adobe.com/air/mac/download/*3.6*/AdobeAIRSDK.tbz2]<br>Windows : [http://airdownload.adobe.com/air/win/download/3.6/AdobeAIRSDK.zip airdownload.adobe.com/air/win/download/*3.6*/AdobeAIRSDK.zip]
  * ...
  * get AIR *3.0* SDK to merge with Flex SDK<br>Mac OS X : [http://airdownload.adobe.com/air/mac/download/3.0/AdobeAIRSDK.tbz2 airdownload.adobe.com/air/mac/download/*3.0*/AdobeAIRSDK.tbz2]<br>Windows : [http://airdownload.adobe.com/air/win/download/3.0/AdobeAIRSDK.zip airdownload.adobe.com/air/win/download/*3.0*/AdobeAIRSDK.zip]
  * etc.

----
=== Ressources ===

*links:*
 * [http://www.adobe.com/devnet/air/air-sdk-download.html Download Adobe AIR SDK] (Adobe)
 * [http://help.adobe.com/en_US/air/build/index.html Adobe AIR] (Adobe Documentation)
 * [http://blogs.adobe.com/airodynamics/ Adobe AIR on Mobile Blog] (Adobe)
 * [http://helpx.adobe.com/x-productkb/multi/how-overlay-air-sdk-flex-sdk.html How to Overlay the AIR SDK for Use With the Flex SDK]