#summary the gclient tool.

== Introduction ==

gclient (or google client) is a set of wrapper scripts for checking out and updating source code from multiple SCM repository locations.

The project started here [http://code.google.com/p/gclient/ http://code.google.com/p/gclient/]<br>
but is now integrated in the Chromium [http://dev.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/depottools depot_tools].

On the [http://www.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/depottools/gclient depot_tools/gclient] page you can find more informations.

{{{
    gclient was originally developed for internal use by the Google Chrome team,
    to coordinate pieces of code from different SCM repositories during the development process.
    The sources are included inside depot_tools.  
}}}

== informations ==

We use *gclient* on top of *svn* for all of our projects.

See [Organization#if_you_are_a_Committer] for the greedy details.

In short, we replace all the `svn:externals` by `DEPS` file and use gclient to sync and update, for the commits we simply navigate into each project directory and do a `svn commit` there.

*Why are we doing that ?*<br>
It is easier for us to maintain different small projects that get assembled in a big directory structure than to maintain a huge monolithic project.

*What are the advantages of `DEPS` files ?*<br>
 * It is really like a `svn:externals` but with the difference that it is a file instead of a svn property, so for us it is clearer to see the mapping of directories in those `DEPS` files.
 * it allow us from the same sources to assemble different structure of projects, see [http://code.google.com/p/maashaack/source/browse/#svn/configs/maashaack maashaack] and [http://code.google.com/p/maashaack/source/browse/#svn/configs/maashaackSA maashaackSA].
 * it allows to have a parent/child relationship between projects.


== installation ==

 * download the archive [http://code.google.com/p/maashaack/downloads/detail?name=gclient-0.3.4.zip gclient-0.3.4]
 * unzip in a folder
 * create a symlink

note: under Windows, we support only [http://www.cygwin.com/ cygwin]

{{{
$ cd ~
$ unzip gclient-0.3.4.zip
$ ln -s gclient-0.3.4/gclient.py gclient
}}}

== usage ==
{{{

Usage: gclient <subcommand> [options] [--] [SCM options/args...]
a wrapper for managing a set of svn client modules and/or git repositories.
Version 0.3.4

subcommands:
   cleanup
   config
   diff
   export
   pack
   revert
   status
   sync
   update
   runhooks
   revinfo

Options and extra arguments can be passed to invoked SCM commands by
appending them to the command line.  Note that if the first such
appended option starts with a dash (-) then the options must be
preceded by -- to distinguish them from gclient options.

For additional help on a subcommand or examples of usage, try
   gclient help <subcommand>
   gclient help files


Options:
  --version             show program's version number and exit
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --force               (update/sync only) force update even for modules which
                        haven't changed
  --nohooks             (update/sync/revert only) prevent the hooks from
                        running
  --revision=REV        (update/sync only) sync to a specific revision, can be
                        used multiple times for each solution, e.g.
                        --revision=src@123, --revision=internal@32
  --deps=OS_LIST        (update/sync only) sync deps for the specified (comma-
                        separated) platform(s); 'all' will sync all platforms
  --spec=SPEC           (config only) create a gclient file containing the
                        provided string
  -v, --verbose         produce additional output for diagnostics
  --manually_grab_svn_rev
                        Skip svn up whenever possible by requesting actual
                        HEAD revision from the repository
  --head                skips any safesync_urls specified in configured
                        solutions
  --delete_unversioned_trees
                        on update, delete any unexpected unversioned trees
                        that are in the checkout
}}}