#summary full disclosure on the how why when etc.

== Introduction ==

Maashaack started as one big framework, grabing a bit from .NET, from Java,<br>
from everywhere in fact, but just taking the good stuff ;)

!ActionScript from its ECMAScript origins does not really have a framework<br>
you know !JavaScript was mostly used for web glue and needed to stay small<br>
so AS since day one kind of evolved like that, with the only difference that because<br>
of Flash, you also got a Flash API on top of the builtins.

It's also a bit part due to the flash community and Adobe themselves,<br>
the community have a tendency to duplicate the same kind of projects with 2/3 dev<br>
instead of joining forces with 10 dev on 1 project,<br>
and for Adobe, well... they got a lot of dev but working on the Flex framework,<br>
which not exactly something that you could call *pure AS3*.

Wether you like it or not the situation is like that, nothing wrong or good about it,<br>
but still I and few others think that AS3 would deserve such big framework.

So, voila maashaack started like that, with the idea of being a big framework,<br>
but the more the thing grow, the more I was seeing a big monster instead of<br>
the original idea.

Lesson learned: to do a big framework, you have to pull out the big guns,<br>
be a dozen people team, work 10h+ everyday on it and keep doing it.


== The Big Refactor ==

We still want to do a big framework, but we gonna do it a bit differently :).

We gonna apply the *divide and conquer* principle.

Instead of having one big project that contains-all end-all, we gonna split it<br>
in smaller independent projects, that you can start in a week-end, finnish in few weeks<br>
and glue them all together in a framework.

And this is done !!

check this small post about [https://plus.google.com/117271975527324598054/posts/WQGMmwMj3Bi Framework and Modularity]

We are here, we are modular now :)

See an [Code101#Introduction introduction] to the new structure.<br>
Look here to understand a [ProjectStructure project structure].<br>
Choose your style: [Code101#maashaack maashaack] (all in one) or [Code101#maashaackSA maashaackSA] (split in categories).<br>
And [Build] either [LocalBuild locally] or [MetaBuild globally].