#summary Everything about the MetaBuild.

== Introduction ==

What we call a *MetaBuild* is simply an Ant build that drives other ant builds.

Because we deal with a lot of packages, libraries, tools and platform libraries<br>
we defined a way to build them all in sequence
  * to be able to order them (eg. build *A* before *B*)
  * to be able to sync' them (eg. copy *A* into *B* libs)
  * to be able to tag them (eg. build *A*, *B*, *C* and tag them "beta 1")
  * to be able to distribute them (eg. copy *A* binaries in dist folder or into a zip file)

All this is automated and save us a lot of time.

<br>
<br>

== Important files ==

*build.xml* is where all the logic is, that's the *metabuild* file or the main entry point if you prefer.

*meta.xml* are the project (or module) builds meant to be called by *build.xml*.

<br>

The Metabuild gets all its configuration from the `build` folder

*compile.properties* define which projects to compile and in which order.

*common.properties* contains the default settings

*version.properties* contains the version information for the metabuild

the `macros` folder contains ant macrodef

the `tasks` folder contains reusable tasks (also macrodef)

and the `modules` folder contains each projects configurations

<br>
<br>

== How does it works ? ==

You run *build.xml*

all the macros, tasks, modules, etc. are loaded

after we load either *common.properties* or *user.properties* to configure the build

then a build tag is created based on *version.properties*, for ex: tag *1A099*

then we load *compile.properties* to know which projects to compile

then we loop in those different projects and call their respective `/build/modules/NAME.xml`<br>
(NAME being the current project name)

which then call the respective `/CATEGORY/NAME/meta.xml` (CATEGORY being one of packages, libraries, tools or platform)

and done.


<br>
<br>

== How to add a project to the metabuild ? ==

Before doing anything in the metabuild itself be sure that your project follow the [ProjectStructure project structure]<br>
and that the local [Build] follow the organisation of defining both a *build.xml* and a *meta.xml* (as well as a *build.properties*).

<br>

Now, you first need to edit the *DEPS* of the *solution* and be sure you project is checked out.

with maashaackSA for ex:
{{{
Var("root") + "/packages/system_terminals"    : Var("repo") + "/packages/system_terminals/trunk",
}}}

After doing a `gclient sync` or `gclient update`<br>
the you will need to add your project to the *compile.properties*
{{{
system_terminals1.name = system_terminals1
system_terminals1.path = packages
system_terminals1.mod = system_terminals
system_terminals1.alt
}}}

here pay attention
 * *name* is the id of the project
 * *path* is the category where the project reside
 * *mod* is the the file system name of the project and the default target name of the compile
 * *alt* is an alternate target to compile

that means we call `build/modules/MOD.xml` in the directory `PATH/MOD`<br>
if *alt* were defined<br>
we would call `build/modules/ALT.xml` in the directory `PATH/MOD`


Remember that *compile.properties* decide in which order projects are compiled<br>
for example:
{{{
core1.name = core1
core1.path = packages
core1.mod = core
core1.alt

system_terminals1.name = system_terminals1
system_terminals1.path = packages
system_terminals1.mod = system_terminals
system_terminals1.alt

astuce1.name = astuce1
astuce1.path = libraries
astuce1.mod = astuce
astuce1.alt
}}}

here *system.terminals* will be compiled after the *core* project but before the *astuce* project.

<br>
In special case, where you need the same project to be compiled more than once use *alt*

{{{
core1.name = core1
core1.path = packages
core1.mod = core
core1.alt

system_terminals1.name = system_terminals1
system_terminals1.path = packages
system_terminals1.mod = system_terminals
system_terminals1.alt

astuce1.name = astuce1
astuce1.path = libraries
astuce1.mod = astuce
astuce1.alt

core2.name = core2
core2.path = packages
core2.mod = core
core2.alt = special
}}}

here *core* will be compiled first with the default compile target *core*<br>
then *system.terminals* get compiled<br>
then *astuce* compile too<br>
and you compile again *core* but this time with the alternative target *special*

As it is you can compile  and recompile a project many many times<br>
provided that each time you change the id (core1, core2, core3, core4, etc.)<br>
and provide an *alt* target with a different name

<br>

Now you need to go into `build/modules/` and create an XML file to configure how the project is compiled

For example with *system.terminals* we create `build/modules/system_terminals.xml`

you need to edit the name of the target
{{{
<target name="compile-system_terminals">
}}}

then you need to configure which properties are passed to the build
{{{
<ant antfile="${path}/meta.xml" target="main" inheritAll="false">
  <property name="FLEX_HOME" value="${FLEX_HOME}" />
  <property name="TODAY" value="${TODAY}" />
  <property name="local.flashplayerversion" value="${local.flashplayerversion}" />
  <property file="${path}/build/build.properties"/>
</ant>
}}}

`${path}/meta.xml` will always be the same, but in very exceptional case could be changed.

You need to pass the minimum properties required by the *meta.xml*
  * FLEX_HOME
  * TODAY
  * local.flashplayerversion

and also the respective *build.properties* for the project
which will always be `${path}/build/build.properties` (but again can be changed for exceptional case)

After that, you will need to configure if your project is deployed (or not) in the *dist* folder
{{{
<copy file="${path}/bin-release/system.terminals.swc" todir="libs/swc" overwrite="true" />
<copy file="${path}/bin-release/system.terminals.abc" todir="libs/abc" overwrite="true" />
}}}
here want to distribute both a SWC and an ABC of the package.

And finally you need to indicate if the currently compiled project need to be copied in other projects dependencies
{{{
<copy file="${path}/bin-release/system.terminals.swc" todir="libraries/astuce/lib-swc" overwrite="true" />
<copy file="${path}/bin-release/system.terminals.abc" todir="libraries/astuce/lib-abc" overwrite="true" />
}}}
here we want to copy the newly compiled binaries to the *astuce* project.

<br>

Voila, from there your project is integrated in the metabuild and will be compiled/copied/sync'ed/etc. each time the metabuild run.

<br>
<br>

== Problem with Subversion password  ==

If the metabuild get stuck with
{{{
Password for 'zwetan':       [svn] Authentication realm:
<https://maashaack.googlecode.com:443> Google Code Subversion Repository
}}}

just paste your SVN password and type ENTER

you may have to do that more than once
(but once done the system should remember your log/pwd afterwards)

<br>
<br>

== Problem with Ant addons ==

if the metabuild fail with "FTP task not found" or other error related to an Ant addon.

you need to do a full install of *Apache Ant 1.8.2*<br>
download it here http://ant.apache.org/bindownload.cgi

copy it to your share folder
{{{
$ sudo cp -R apache-ant-1.8.2 /usr/share/java/apache-ant-1.8.2
}}}

replace the symlink
{{{
$ cd /usr/share
$ sudo mv ant ant-old
$ sudo ln -s java/apache-ant-1.8.2 ant
}}}

install the Ant addons
{{{
$ cd /usr/share/java/apache-ant-1.8.2
$ sudo ant =f fetch.xml -Ddest=system
}}}

<br>
<br>

== Problem with Ant memory ==

If you end up with a memory error<br>
for ex:
{{{
/OpenSource/maashaackSA/build/modules/astuce.xml:8: The following error
occurred while executing this line:
/OpenSource/maashaackSA/libraries/astuce/meta.xml:99:
java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: PermGen space
}}}

You will need to add more memory to Ant

Under OS X / Linux, edit your *.profile* file 
{{{
$ cd ~
$ sudo pico .profile
}}}

and add the following lines
{{{
export ANT_HOME=/usr/share/ant/
export ANT_OPTS="-Xms512m -Xmx2048m"
}}}

I use those settings for ex
{{{
export ANT_HOME=/usr/share/ant/
export ANT_OPTS="-Xms1024m -Xmx4096m -XX:MaxPermSize=512m"
}}}

Under Windows, you will have to set the ANT_OPTS environment variable in the appropriate<br>
"My Computer" properties dialog box (winXP), "Computer" properties (Vista).