#labels Code,AS3
#the singleton pattern in AS3.

= Introduction =

This must be one of the most debated subject in the AS3 community,
and I feel strongly about it, to the point that I've posted [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singleton_pattern#Actionscript_3.0 my view on wikipedia about that].

From wikipedia I will keep the main definition
 In software engineering, the singleton pattern is a design pattern that is used
 to restrict instantiation of a class to one object.

and the implementation
 Implementation of a singleton pattern must satisfy the single instance and
 global access principles.

The most common mistake and source of the debate is because people try to apply to AS3
the Java-way we end up with multiple different hackish way of implementing a singleton in AS3, and this is just wrong.

Remember we are hybrid, and our language (ES4/AS3) have features that allow us to do differently than Java as described bellow by Steve Yegge in [http://steve.yegge.googlepages.com/singleton-considered-stupid his article]

 Yep. I was using classes purely as namespaces.
 
 Since in Java, classes are the ONLY globally available namespace
 mechanism built into the language, this is actually a common thing to
 do, Singleton or no. Unless you want to build your own reflective
 registry, or use JNDI or something, classes are your only option for
 separating your code into namespaces. So in that regard, the (very)
 little I was doing with classes wasn't actually so wrong. 


= Details =



= references =

[http://steve.yegge.googlepages.com/singleton-considered-stupid Singleton Considered Stupid]

[http://www.flashbrighton.org/wordpress/?p=91 The Singleton]

[http://www.darronschall.com/weblog/archives/000274.cfm ActionScript 3 Singleton Redux]

[http://life.neophi.com/danielr/2006/10/singleton_pattern_in_as3.html Singleton Pattern in AS3]

[http://www.cynergysystems.com/blogs/page/andrewtrice?entry=singleton_in_as3 Singleton in AS3]

[http://www.gskinner.com/blog/archives/2006/07/as3_singletons.html AS3: Singletons]

[http://skovalyov.blogspot.com/2006/12/there-are-some-ways-to-create-singleton.html Singleton in ActionScript 3.0]


[http://tomschober.blogspot.com/2007/01/singleton-pattern-in-cairngorm-21-with.html Singleton Pattern in Cairngorm 2.1 with Actionscript 3]

[http://manishjethani.com/blog/2008/04/09/how-i-do-singletons-in-as3/]