#summary Slots vs Signals vs Events.

== Introduction ==

Here we explain all the little differences between<br>
what we consider *slots*, *signals* and *events*.

Basically it is all about transferring messages between objects,<br>
and yes you can do it in a lot of different ways.

Are we asynchronous or synchronous ?<br>
Do we communicate with a user interface ?<br>
How fast can we go ?<br>
How many listeners can we reach ?<br>
etc.

Just few questions you could ask yourself when<br>
it come to "message programming".

== Details ==

First, we are talking about AS3 and so we need to state<br>
that functions are first class objects: you can pass them as arguments.

=== Function Callback ===

Nothing new, since AS1 you can do that.

TODO

=== Slots ===

Same, since AS1 we can use that, remember the *ASBroadcaster* class.<br>
Very similar to the function callback, but the "nuance" is that the message is the function name to call.

{{{
Object --> broadcast( message, ...args ) --> targets
}}}
 * you have a list of targets
 * the `message` is a function name
 * you loop trough the list<br>and call the function in the scope of each target<br>passing a serie of arguments

=== Signals ===

Similar to the function callback and the slot, but the difference is<br>
that 

{{{
signaler --> emit( message, ...args ) --> receiver
}}}


=== Events ===

{{{
dispatcher --> dispatch( event object ) --> listener

  (origin) --> -- capture -----> (target) ----.
    ^                                     |
    `--  (node) <-- (node) <--  bubbling <---'
}}}

----
=== Ressources ===

*links:*
 * [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Callback_(computer_programming) Callback] (Wikipedia)
 * [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Signal_programming Signal programming] (Wikipedia)
 * [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Event-driven_programming Event-driven programming] (Wikipedia)
 * [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Signal_(computing) Unix Signal] (Wikipedia)
 * [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Signals_and_slots Signals and Slots] (Wikipedia)
 * [http://qt-project.org/doc/qt-4.8/signalsandslots.html Signals & Slots] (QT)
 * [http://python-gtk-3-tutorial.readthedocs.org/en/latest/basics.html Main loop and Signals] (Python GTK+ 3 Tutorial)
 * [http://www.javaworld.com/javaworld/javatips/jw-javatip10.html Implement callback routines in Java] (javaworld)